Hi everybody,
welcome to reproducible research.
The purpose of this lecture is
to introduce you to the idea of
reproducibility and to explain why
I think it's really important.
Even if you dont think of yourself as
a researcher or as conducting research,
if you analyze data at all, it's
critically important that you understand
the ideas of reproducibility and
the problems that it introduces.
So I want to get that across to
everybody right off the bat so
you can understand it and
see why it's so important.
Now, in case you're not
familiar with the idea already,
I thought I'd introduce some of the issues
that are raised by reproducibility by
drawing an analogy from another area,
and that's music.
So before we go on any further,
just take a quick listen to this
excerpt that I'll play for you.
[MUSIC]
Okay, so
that was a song called Code Monkey.
It was written and performed by Jonathon
Colton, and I just played you the first
minute or so of the song that got you
through the first verse and the chorus.
So you might want to just rewind and
just maybe listen to that excerpt one more
time just to kind of get it in your head,
it may get stuck in your head,
so I apologize in advance.
But, think about that song and
what you already know about it, all right?
So, you know what it sounds like.
You have a sense of who wrote it,
who performed it.
You know that it starts with
a guitar in the beginning.
If you have a pretty good ear,
you know that it's in F major.
And then later on another guitar
joins as a drum kit that plays along.
And of course, he's singing along.
He's singing the words.
And if you can listen carefully and
you understand a language,
you could even tell what words he saying.
And so, and
that's pretty much the whole song.
And of course, I didn't play the whole
thing for you, but if I had,
you could have decoded a lot of this
information just from the recording, okay?
So most popular songs like
this are not very complicated.
They don't have a lot of instruments or
a lot of voices, and
they typically range
from two to four minutes.
And if you're a good musician and
you can listen very carefully,
it's not that hard to
kind of play the song,
maybe on your own guitar or whatever,
after you've heard it, okay?
Now, okay.
Now, let's take a listen
to this piece now.
[MUSIC]
Okay, so in case you didn't recognize it,
that was the very beginning of the
Symphony Number Eight, by Gustav Mahler.
It was performed by
the Chicago Symphony Orchestra,
under the baton of Sir Georg Solti.
And so this might be the polar opposite
of the Code Monkey song that I
just played for you.
This symphony is sometimes called
the Symphony of 1000, because just of
the sheer number of people that have
to be on stage to perform this piece.
You need an entire symphony orchestra.
You need an entire full chorus to sing.
And so there's a lot of complex moving
parts needed to perform this piece,
and yet it gets performed all the time,
and everyone recognizes
the piece when they hear it,
because it's more or less the same thing.
Now how does that happen, right?
So how is it that orchestras and
choruses all over the world can play
this enormously complex piece and
it always seems to come off more or
less just the same thing, okay?
And similarly, how is it that you can
listen to Johnathan Colton's song and
you can hear the music, and then somehow,
if you are trained musician,
you can pick it up and
maybe play it for yourself, okay?
This is really about reproducibility,
right?
So in music, one of the nice things
about music in general is that
when you hear the performance, regardless
of whether it's a simple popular song or
an enormous symphony,
you get all the information that you need.
And now depending on the complexity
of the music, you may get more or
less information, because the brain
is only able to process so
much information at a time.
But for something that's very complicated,
like a symphony,
we actually have a way to
write down the instructions to
give to the performers to tell
them how to play each thing.
And so it actually,
Mahler is a great example of this
because he himself was a conductor.
And he knew that as a conductor it's
often difficult to look at a composer's
music and understand what is it
exactly that the composer wanted here?
And so when he wrote his music, he put
instructions on every single inch of
that piece of music, because that way
the conductor who is interpreting and
the performers who are interpreting
the music can understand, oh,
that's what the composer wanted here.
So for Mahler's Symphony Number Eight
what we have is the score.
So the score is basically a book
that lists every single part
of every instrument, and what they need
to play, and what instructions they have.
And so the conductor can look
at the score, and say, okay,
I know what the violin's playing at this
time and I know what the flute is playing,
and I know what the chorus
is singing at this time.
And that way the music can be coordinated
and all performed, and synchronized.
You can have a score for a popular song
too, so Code Monkey could have a score,
there'd be guitar lines,
there'd be drum lines.
It's typically not written in the same
way that you would write a symphony, but
there is a notation that is
used sometimes to communicate
how a piece of music should be performed.
And so what we're talking about in
this course, Reproducible Research,
is basically, how do you develop
the score for data analysis so
that you can communicate to
someone what was done, and
if they want to reproduce the work,
how to do it, okay?
Now the fundamental problem in data
analysis is that we don't really have
an agreed upon notation system for
communicating data analysis.
And so, everyone does it a different way,
and in aggregate, it's kind of a mess.
So some people will just describe in
words what was done, and in some cases,
this is suficient.
This is sufficient but
in many cases, it's not.
Some people will provide
the computer code and the data and
everything that you need,
and sometimes that's good.
But sometimes it's enormously complex and
it's difficult to sort through.
And so there are a variety of ways that
you can communicate data analysis,
but we just haven't agreed upon
what is a way that we can all look,
that is sufficient for everybody, or
more or less sufficient for everybody.
So, what we're gonna focus
on in this course, is how to
communicate data analysis, using code by
writing documents that are very dynamic,
and by sharing data so that other people
can reproduce the work that you're doing.
So this is important for
all data analysis.
It's not just about doing research per se.
And because if you wanna communicate
what you've done to other people,
you need to be able to give them
the material so that they can perform, so
to speak, the analysis themselves.